We have come to the third and
final part of the course
that is going to mostly be
around getting some reps in,
if you will,
with the many possibilities for
building whatever we
want on the web [LAUGH].
So the idea today, our theme,
if you will, the idea for
this part, our theme,
if you will is, hacking away.
So the idea is that we want to, today
we're gonna talk about a couple of more,
again, practical dev workflows tips today.
We're gonna talk about a few other
tools we can incorporate in our
day-to-day dev lives to
make our life easier.
We're gonna talk about how to get our
beautiful production build that we know
how to make now with Vite, how to get it
onto the interwebs, if you do it right,
unlike me, with the slides.
And then you can share it with all of
your friends all over the Reddit and
the social media platform of your choice,
what have you.
And also, we are going to hopefully
feel vindicated in all of
our tiny little .HTML files,
all of our little quick wins and
our selfie cam and
all these things that we've been building.
We're going to see them come together
into a hackable project that we
can then all take and take in
different directions, make it our own.
So the aim for this part is that
we're going to focus on kind of
letting our imaginations run wild and
our MDN Fu,
come to our aid in figuring out how to
do a thing that we imagine happening,
and hopefully, share all of
our learnings with each other.
All right, how's that sound?
>> Excellent.
>> We ready?
>> Yep, ready.
>> Yeah, okay.
>> Someone online said you are the best.
>> [LAUGH] You are the best.
You are all the best.
This is honestly so
great to be here with all of you.
And I'm just, again, so appreciative
that we can do this in three dimensions,
some of us, and
that we have the hybrid model now.
All right, so, DevTools.
We need more always, right?
Because we can never have enough of
those overwhelming logos to worry about.
However, there are some
other little little and
ginormous tools that can help
us have a much easier time and
ideally avoid a lot of the more
obvious problems that some of us
run into frequently if we don't have
tools automatically fixing them for us.
So that's what we're gonna talk about.
Now, before we launch our
things to the interwebs.
So, first and foremost,
a dev's best friend these days,
the last few decades anyway,
is version control.
So, have folks all worked with Git or
GitHub before?
Yeah, I'm seeing nods.
Am I seeing virtual nods?
It's from the chat.
Are we Git fans already?
Because this is not,
we're not really going to cover all of
the things there are to know about Git.
Again, that would be a whole other thing.
And in fact, it is a whole other course
on front end masters that you can go
take if you want to learn Git or
Get more familiar.
There are also some great
cheat sheets out there and
other resources that you can find.
So if you're new to Git, for example,
the GitHub Education website,
I think it's education.github.com or
something has a really handy cheat sheet,
you can print out and just It's like
keep by your laptop, for example.
Okay, but the basics here is that so, now,
Git and GitHub are not the only
ways to manage version control for
your project and collaboration and
open source and working with a team,
let's say, working with other
people on the same project.
There are other version
control systems and
there are other repository hosting
solutions like GitLab, for example, and
some of the other version control vendors
are things like Mercurial for example.
There's an older one called SVN.
You might run into once and awhile anyway.
The way of everybody
converging on VS Code, for
example, which happens to
be a Microsoft property,
which also is the case for GitHub.
So this is one of these things where
there's a gravitational force here that's
pulling us all together.
Because Git and GitHub are so
ambiguities in the developer ecosystem,
especially in web development,
we're going to just talk about those.
And so perhaps you've all done
commands like this before.
What we can do is, use the get clone
command to clone a repository of,
let's say, some open source
project that we wanna work on or
some some demo app that
we want to mess with.
So for example, I have a repo up there for
my selfie cam project.
Now you all don't need to clone that one.
But the idea is you can
clone somebody's repo.
You can make your own
branches like maybe I make
a branch called bug fix where I go in and
I fixed that bug.
And then we can add changes or
stage changes to save
sort of as I have made this
change in the repository.
We can commit it with a little
message that's hopefully helpful for
people to understand what I did here and
then push it.
And that little you is for the first
the first time you run the push command,
you will have to set a destination,
a remote branch that you want
to sync with your local branch.
And so the remote here is called origin.
That's usually kind of
the default that we use.
And then we would type in the name of
the branch that we want to sync on both.
So now I will have a local bug fix
branch and my origin bug fix branch,
which then, once I'm satisfied
that the bug is actually fixed,
I can merge in to my main branch.
So again, covering all the good stuff
is not in the scope of this course, but
this is like, basically what
we're gonna be doing a lot today.
[LAUGH] Well, and maybe not the last one.
We'll just be doing get push
after we've set the upstream.